# Runtime
## Async support
The runtime is internally asynchronous, but only exposes synchronous APIs for the following reasons:
- To make the script more friendly to Python newbies
- To avoid being infectious
  
  Some libraries, such as ipywidgets, do not support async yet.
- To make scripts shorter

If you want to use the asynchronous APIs, you need to:
- Prefix all APIs support async with an underscore and await
  
  For example:
  - `load()` → `await runtime._load()`
  - `queue.cancel_all()` → `await queue._cancel_all()`
  - `obj.display()` (and `display(obj)`) → `await obj._display()`
- Replace `with Workflow` with `async with Workflow`
- Replace `obj.wait()` with `await obj`, `obj.wait_result()` with `await obj.result()`
- Replace `ImageBatchResult[i]` with `await ImageBatchResult.get(i)`

## Other differences from ComfyUI's web UI
- No limitations on input precision and range.

  For example, in the web UI, `ImageScaleBy`'s `scale_by` has a minimum precision of 0.01, it is not possible to use a value like `0.375`, but only `0.38` (even if the workflow is generated by ComfyScript). But in ComfyScript, there is no such limitations.

## Real mode
Differences from virtual mode:
- The position of parameters may be different.

  Virtual mode determines the position of paramerters by `INPUT_TYPES`, but it may differ from what the position `FUNCTION` actually has. To make the code compatible with virtual mode and real mode, keyword arguments should always be used.

  Note that the type stubs generated for real mode nodes also use the position of `INPUT_TYPES`. It may be fixed in future versions.

- Default value may be different or missing.

- No cache will be made for node outputs.